Huang M, Kao KC. Identifying novel genetic determinants for oxidative stress
tolerance in Candida glabrata via adaptive laboratory evolution. Yeast 2018
Nov;35(11):605-618. PMID: 30141215
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/yea.3352

Image in Issues

LEGEND:
Bioinformatic analysis of transcriptome data.
A, Venn diagram showing number of differentially expressed genes in each adaptive mutant and
expression of genes in “organic acid biosynthetic process” enriched in the gene ontology (GO)
term analysis. ND, Not differentially expressed.
B, List of enriched transcription factors (TFs) from “Rank by TF” analysis (TF highlighted in yellow
are mutated in the respective mutant) and gene expression of genes in select enriched GO terms
for H2‐11G and H2‐18Y
INTRODUCTION:
This paper’s main goal is to identify the mechanism of tolerance of C. glabrata to H2O2. They
have identified adaptive mutants isolated from C. glabrata strains that have showed resistance
to gradually increasing concentrations of H2O2 added by using ALE (Adaptive Laboratory
Evolution). To the adaptive mutants isolated they have performed phenotypic and omic analysis.
They have used genome resequencing and genome wide transcriptome analysis to so, which is
what I hope to reproduce. By, doing these analyses, they identified multiple genetic determinants
which are potentially responsible for enhanced resistance to stress.
They have used periodic oxidative stress challenge strategy and evolved parallel populations of
C. glabrata for isolating genetic mutants capable that tolerated increasing stress conditions from
80mM to 350mM of H2O2. They have identified 4 major adaptive mutations (H2 family) which
they have sequenced and performed gene ontology (GO) term analysis to identify significantly
enriched biological process. Ultimately, they have identified additional genes (Akl1, Ydj1, Pdc1,
Tal1, Mga2, Hmo1, Sin3, Ace2) which likely also play roles in oxidative stress tolerance in C.
glabrata.
The figure I wish to reproduce shows the number of differentially expressed genes enriched in
the gene ontology (GO) term analysis, in each of the adaptive mutant and expression of genes in
“organic acid biosynthetic process”. Another part of the figure gives details about enriched
transcription factors (TFs) and gene expression of genes for enriched GO terms for H2‐11G and
H2‐18Y
